= luhnacy

A tiny (hopefully) gem that will automate some of the painful tasks of generating / validating strings of numbers based on the Luhn algorithm (e.g. credit card numbers, ID numbers).

== Usage

To require:

  require 'luhnacy'

=== Generic Validation\Generation

To validate:

  Luhnacy.valid?('49927398716')

To generate a string of 10 digits that satisfies the Luhn algorithm:

  valid_string = Luhnacy.generate(10)

To generate a string of 10 digits that does not satisfy Luhn algorithm:

  invalid_string = Luhnacy.generate(10, :invalid => true)

To generate a string of 10 digits that satisfies Luhn and starts with predefined characters:

  Luhnacy.generate(10, :prefix => '12345') #=> "1234597480"

=== Named Generators/Validators

There are named validators and generators for Visa, Mastercard and American Express credit cards. Note: Visa validation/generation only works for 16-digit credit card numbers.

Example usage (mastercard)

To validate a mastercard:

  Luhnacy.mastercard?("5176290135048779")

To generate a mastercard number that satisfies Luhn:

  Luhnacy.mastercard #=> "5151199732615386"

To generate a master card number that does not satisfy Luhn:

  Luhnacy.mastercard(:invalid => true)

Similar usage exists for Visa and American Express:

  Luhnacy.visa
  Luhnacy.visa?

  Luhnacy.amex
  Luhnacy.amex?

== Planned changes

At some point it may make sense to store the patterns for the named generator in a seperate class/module or even in a YAML file. This will be driven by the need for additional named generators. If a YAML file is used, then the very next release may also include the ability to pass Luhnacy a custom YAML file for generating/validating strings.

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Sources

* http://blog.flame.org/2008/3/24/checking-credit-card-numbers-in-ruby
* http://www.missiondata.com/blog/web-development/25/credit-card-type-and-luhn-check-in-ruby/
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luhn
* http://www.darkcoding.net/credit-card-numbers/
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Credit_card_number

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Rory McKinley. See LICENSE for details.
